He could not walk the earth plane. I mean he literally could not walk upon the earth plane
This is a very complicated
We certainly won't go into that because it has a lot to do with energy force fields and so forth
but in response to your question
out of
The the being that we now would call
Jesus
that has moved in two thousand years time to what he is now.
A part of his polarity, a part of his being will choose
and has chosen to manifest on the earth plane
and bring with it the wisdom that is needed for this coming age.
There has been a lot of talk that there will be three of them,
seven of them, I believe this is part of what they are saying?
Yes.
Um...
This is again a misinformation. It is true,
it is true that incarnating now and in the ensuing years
will be people
who will be able to understand and respond to
this highest vibration.
So in a sense, you see, this is what they're saying, that these
specially gifted spiritual leaders will be on the earth plane, and that is true,
but it is also not true to say that,
and I must argue with this one,
in one of the books it is written that I believe it is Paul,
Peter, I can't remember, it was one of the disciples that supposedly is to come back
to the earth plane because of an incompleted work with
with at the time of Jesus of Nazareth.
Yes, that's stated in one of the text books.
Well, with all due respect to all of that,
two thousand years of anyone having to wait that long
in order to overcome the minor difficulty that he experienced
is very unfair and totally unlike the God-like love and wisdom.
That is not a true statement. Do you understand me?
I understand.
There is no reason that God or anyone would ask that a man, an entity,
wait two thousand years to redo something that was so minor as to not...
I mean, if those laws were in existence, we would all be in great jeopardy.
So, yes, he will come again,
in the sense that a concentrated power-packed form of spiritual energy is going to come to
the earth plane in order to try to get the balance going in a more positive direction.
There is great need in this world and there is a lot of great chaos in the world and even
Even in the so-called enlightened countries, a term that we find very funny, you see, there
is tremendous darkness and chaos.
And I will say that there is no guarantee that even the coming of this beautiful being
will be able to tip the scales.
It depends on the hearts of men.
Always has, always will.
You still remain free to choose.
This does not mean that God's plan will not fail.
It does not mean that God's plan will fail, it means that all men are destined to come to God.
When they do it is up to them.
It may be this time, there is always an opportunity because God is ever loving, ever present, and ever caring.
And he will not abandon his children, but they are the ones that must choose him.
Is this clear to you?
Yes, may I ask one more thing?
Yes, I do.
Sure.
If the spiritual tone that is struck through the second time, however it manifests,
is insufficient to take the still, then what can we expect to follow?
[Sigh]
Well, you see, what happens is,
when the spiritual world tries over and over and over again
again to impress itself on the hearts and minds of men. And this is another exalted opportunity.
But if the minds of men turn, then what you can expect is what has happened in the past,
which is a period of greater darkness. Because one of the sad things, and one of the gambles,
so to speak, about such a coming, is that the darkness becomes strong too. You see, it's
hard to explain, but when a tremendous force moves into the world, it activates what is
there. You see? It doesn't just activate what it is, it activates, it is the power that activates
all, all powers that are now existing on the Earth's surface. Do you all understand me?
It does not say, "I am a good light and I will only activate good people."
It says, "I am power.
I am power."
This is very clear in the story of Jesus of Nazareth.
The reason that the Pharisees were so opposed to him was because he was so powerful and
it brought out power in them, do you see?
But the problem was that their power was for destruction, was for isolation, was for separation,
and so they chose to destroy him.
his very power activated their power. It goes back to our first question, which is, we are
not separate. This being will come into the world and the people around him will have
an opportunity. They will either respond and open and crack their shells and call out and
become lighter, or they will use the force of his power and become more of what they
already are. So if the experiment fails, then we are left with a great deal of power of
what you would call the darkness. And this is foretold in various parts of the Bible.
And so all we say is, "This is why last night your master spoke to you and why I speak to
your wife and I say please if you cannot do these things for yourselves then will you
please do it for the world?
I know one more question and then I'll finish.
Have I answered you?
You certainly have.
Should the woman use the I Ching?
Tell her only when she's feeling chicken and she'll understand me.
Should she use the I Ching?
You see, in a sense the I Ching is counterproductive for her.
What I'm working for and what she is really working for herself also is a really, thank
you, this is fine, is a direct contact with wisdom that is spontaneous and ever present
and she for the most part tries to work with this but then something extremely difficult
will come up and she has then fall, a tendency to fall back into her old habit pattern which
is I don't know anything and when she says I don't know anything then she goes to the
I Ching and throws the I Ching and uses her own wisdom to interpret what's in the book.
It is a device, it's a gimmick, it's a trick and it has worked for her very well and she
she does it very well. She's extremely good at it. And I do not mean in the slightest
to condemn the I Ching. It is one of the great books of the world and has helped more people
than most books. However, in her case, tell her what I said. Use it only when she's chicken.
It would be much better for her to be able to take that same time span that she spends
with the I Ching to put herself in a closeted situation and get within and reach for an
answer within herself and then be courageous and try it. But it doesn't hurt her, you understand,
it doesn't hurt her. And if she's in such a state of confusion, if the question is so
personal that she's not able to become quiet and clarified on it, then by all means, yes,
is
evening. Now we will suggest that the vehicle relax, go further, and experience a sense of
lightness, wellness, happiness, serenity. We will count from five back to one,
Returning to normal consciousness.
5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
This is a session with Bartholomew in Santa Fe, New Mexico, the 26th of May 1978.
And now you will relax, breathe deeply and slowly, feeling yourself going deeply into
a state of relaxation, of inner peace, quiet, calmness, stillness, preparing your physical
vehicle to be used as a channel for higher intelligences.
And when I count from one to five, you will be very, very deeply relaxed.
And when conditions are appropriate after that time, we will ask that Prathalamu come to
visit with us.
One, two, three, four, five.
Good evening.
Good evening, Bartholomew.
Are there questions?
Yes, Bartholomew, I have a question I'd like to start things off with.
With regard to a reference that you had made about a book, we were wondering, Mary Margaret
and I, whether this, perhaps what you meant by this, would be that we should work, we
should be working on a book.
Is this true?
Do you mean each of you separately should be working on a book?
Is this the thrust of your question or if you should jointly be working on a book?
we should be working together on the book.
I would say that the question, as I seem to understand it, is should this book have anything
to do with the work that the woman is doing?
Is this the meaning of your question?
That is correct.
The question then remains, who would be the one to work with her directly as this gentleman
does?
Well, perhaps I could serve in that capacity.
I think that it would be worth an experiment to see if it would work.
The reason I have to be so vague here is that it very much would depend on the relationship
that the two of you have, you see, because this is a total matter of trust.
And if things are going well with the two of you, then I would think that it would be workable.
If they are not, then I'm afraid that there might be some, shall we say, static in the
line.
So I think that since these two live such a distance as to really make it difficult for
any kind of sustained, say, weekly organization along these lines, that it would be worth
a try. And I will answer your question now directly, which is, was my statement about
a book in relationship to the work that she's doing with me? And the answer is yes, that
is what we meant. But we could no more have told her that at that time than, well, it
would have been totally impossible because if these other two will remember at that time
in this procedure she was extremely reluctant about the whole thing and we had to in a way
appease her in many ways and one of the ways we chose to do it was by saying that this was
a very limited ability that it would be terminated in a shorter distance of time and so forth.
One of the reasons we did that was that it wasn't at all sure at that time that it would continue because of her reluctance.
You see, she has a great inner reluctance to believe in this.
And I repeat again, I would like all of you on her behalf not to be critical of this faculty and her.
Actually, she was chosen precisely because she has this constant drive to verify the data,
to make sure that this is a clear line, to prove the things as predicted, do they become truth or not.
And this is the highest kind of integrity in this kind of work.
and it is rare for us to find a channel who has this integrity who doesn't.
Our usual experience is that they are so excited about it that they jump totally,
immerse themselves in it, and it becomes the entire focus of their life.
And when this kind of situation exists, it is very, very unhelpful,
you know, both in terms of what people are given and what happens to the vehicle itself,
because then it becomes a tremendous ego satisfaction.
Do you understand?
Oh yes.
So please encourage her.
For example, she will in the next few months more and more try to test out the truth of what is being said,
and please be absolutely honest with her in your responses.
She needs to get this so-called, in your terminology,
feedback from all of you to understand.
She is really in a vulnerable position in a sense
that she has to depend on others who she loves and trusts.
And the three of you in this room, she loves most in the world, except for her offspring.
So we would ask you please to understand that,
that, to be tolerant of that in her and to help her in any way that you can.
So I say, sir, that try it.
And please, if you do decide to do it, if it does become a vehicle, please be extremely
meditative on the type of questioning that you would reproduce.
By that I mean make sure that the quality of the question is worthy of the time spent with
it.
All right?
Yes, now I gather from that remark that you will not be dictating the content of the book
to us.
If you and the woman decide to do a book, most of the profits of the book will be for your
own development and your own awareness.
a by-product of it will be that it will also be extremely helpful for others.
But the main focus, you see, we would never work in a way with each of you to do something
of such a scope that wouldn't be of absolute benefit to you also.
I mean, this would be a pointless way to spend your life Earth, I mean, your lifetimes, your
Earth times.
So what my meaning here is simply that you will meditate upon, please, the questions.
You will agree jointly on the procedure, how it will be done, what questions will be asked.
This in itself will be a learning experience for the two of you.
You see, you don't have very good communication, the two of you, and this will be a way to
open up those lines of communication on the deep level.
Having to decide jointly on a list of, say, chapters and the content that will go in will
be an interesting experience for both of you in learning how to work together.
So I say that deeply meditate before asking, jointly communicate together.
She is not to be used, please, just as a vehicle in this case.
should be directly consulted on what will be asked. And she will be, it will be
important for her to be constantly aware of the of the material. You see, if it
comes in one day then she should hear it that day because she she has tremendous
doubts and it needs, and these really need to to be set aside. So pick a time in
in the not too distant future when things are going very well in both of your life, both
individually and mutually, and attempt it.
And it would be helpful if you would get some data from this gentleman as to how to begin
the sessions.
And you will know as you go along whether they are successful or not, and she will certainly
be able to tell whether she is in a state of receptivity or not.
Have I answered your questions? Yes, I just have one other on this topic and that is
should there be any static or if for some reason it doesn't work with my serving
in Dr. Aikens' capacity, then does that preclude our going through the project
or could we work with the Aikens on it? Admittedly it will take longer because
because we'll have to plan certain chapters, we'll have to drive to Socorro to do it, but
I mean, if it doesn't work out in a more convenient fashion, is that an indication to forget the
whole thing, or can we go to a second plan with the Aikens?
Well, that would depend on the Aikens.
It depends on their desire to help in this kind of enterprise.
I would say that this would be an appropriate time to ask them if they would acquiesce to
such a plan or not? I would consider it an honor. Then I think that your answer lies
there and I think the beginning chapters might be best done with all four of you
together. With the gentleman in all of you together at the beginning and him
showing the procedure and giving you any any type of information necessary. So if
If you, if I, you see we do realize the inconvenience of this, you see, to do the driving and so
forth, but truly I think the end product will be worthy of your time.
The next few years are very good years for the woman in the deep sense that she is in
in a state of receptivity that she hasn't been in for years and is dropping much of the residue
of lifetimes and lifetimes of karmic buildup, if I may use a misunderstood phrase there.
But it is time for her to get into the deeper senses of herself. She deeply wants to do
this on one level because she really would like to serve, you see, and she feels that
her whole life she's been very selfish, she feels.
Now this is not our perception of her, but this is her perception.
So if you could, in the first beginning stages of it, travel the distance to Socorro, if you would.
Oh, it would be no problem.
And then, if it, then in the presence of the four of you, if it happens then that the contact can be made with you as the guide,
then things can splinter off from there.
And you will all know the movement, the correct movement as it proceeds.
And I will also be available if asked to give my impression of its progress.
Well, of course, we'll want your, shall we say, your editorship at all points in the development.
That will be, of course, always available.
Always available.
Yes, just one last thing.
Now from our earlier conversations I gathered that of course the primary function of my
my wife's and my life and the Aitkin's as well, is to fulfill a spiritual purpose and to not
only grow and develop ourselves but also to assist others.
Now if this is so, then it would not, you know, the matter of material inconvenience or monetary
inconvenience in the greater scheme of things is fairly unimportant.
Do you understand what I'm getting at?
I do, but you see, you will never be abandoned in this regard.
You know, if you consider the Divine Forces as an employer,
you will never fail to receive your paycheck.
If you do.
The slightest amount of work you do on our behalf will be returned, rewarded, so much
more than you can imagine, sir.
The reason I ask is I detected your concern, which of course I appreciate, for the potential
problems involved for us in doing this. But I just wanted a reaffirmation that, as I understand
it, at this point, given our earlier conversations, one should not be too concerned about this
type of problem because the important thing is to do the work that one has been expected
and has agreed to do.
I think you have made a very perceptive statement and I would like to say that if you follow
through with this plan and do put yourselves to any inconvenience. Most of it will lie
with you, sir, because your life is extremely complicated and it will be a sacrifice of
a sort on your part to travel the distances, especially for just a limited period of time.
May I just say that we would be grateful if you would attempt it,
and I think you're very wise to put aside all other considerations of any kind,
at least for a period of months, to see how it works out for you.
Do you see, as it moves, the movement of it will tell you
whether it is something that you are harmonious with and that you agree with
and that you want to continue participation in.
I understand that you've answered my question. Thank you.
And any time it would not be convenient for them to come to Socorro, we can always come to Santa Fe.
That would be helpful if there could be some kind of a dual movement so that they will not always have to be traveling,
because their lives are quite, you know, complicated with offspring and various duties,
and the gentleman has many commitments of various kinds that are very important.
No problem for us, that would be very helpful.
We have a message for you, sir.
Oh, yes.
Justin?
Yes, Master.
I come to place my hands upon your head
in gratitude for the efforts that you have made
on behalf of the one in the last few weeks.
And I wish with this placement on your head to remove all doubts in your mind that you
may have had in the last weeks as to your ability to follow my instructions.
Have there been doubts?
Is this a correct statement?
Yes, I have had considerable doubts.
Yes, I am panicking considerably now.
I am here to place my hand on your head and state that we are aware of the difficulties
that you have had to go through in the last weeks to rise at the early hour under tremendously
difficult circumstances.
And we are very grateful.
And I come to tell you that my heart is pleased.
Well, Master, if you are pleased, then I am pleased also, and I shall continue with whatever you ask me to do.
There is nothing now, other than what you do, that I would ask of you, except one thing.
Yes, Master.
In so much as it is possible during your day, keep me in your mind and heart.
May I ask you a question about this?
Perhaps your question is, in what form?
This is the question.
The form at this time should simply be a feeling tone.
Do you understand me?
I do understand.
At a later date there will be a visual contact made,
and then you will have no questions along this line.
But this is not the time for that.
It will come and I do promise you that it will come.
Thank you, Master.
I'm grateful that you have seen fit to inform me of these things.
You are my son and I am well pleased.
Thank you, Master.
Are there any other questions?
You have any other suggestions?
No Bartholomew, that takes care of my concern at this time.
We have, as you know, Bartholomew, started a centering group in Socorro with about 10 or
12 people, and we have set up a schedule of which you may be aware, and would like to ask
whether you have any other suggestions for the management of this program.
No.
No, indeed, we're watching with great joy.
Everything seems to be moving beautifully.
The movements that we perceive, of course, are not the same outer movements that you
perceive.
And what we see is a very tight, binding network moving amongst those.
Don't be overly concerned, either of you, please, when people come and go, even in these
early stages, because out of this there will form a very tight reticulata.
And it is through that that there will become significant changes in the being of the people
who choose to stay.
So no, we're delighted.
In fact, it's going far better than we had hoped at the beginning.
Their response has been on a much deeper level.
And we're very, very – I'm not speaking of all of them, of course, but the core group
that we have been interested in working is coming together nicely and it's very fine.
Yes, I felt very warm about the whole project.
Excuse me, but I think the light bothers the woman, the flashlight.
How about that, is that alright?
Fine.
You have used the term "salvation" on a couple of occasions, and I wonder if you could give us, from your point of view, what this word might mean, the idea, the concept.
Well, this is one of those very difficult things to explain, but I'll do my best.
First of all, on the highest level, there is no one to be saved and there is nothing to
save anybody from.
But that is a very fine and lofty statement and indeed there will come a time when all
of you in this room will deeply understand this as an experience rather than as an intellectual
statement. But until the time that you are entered into that level of awareness, it is
more helpful perhaps to speak especially to the Christian aspect. This is a Christian
term, and the reason that salvation is used, the word means literally to lift them up out
of what they have been living in and lift them into a different state.
This is literally what we mean when we speak of salvation.
There is nothing to be saved in the sense of a condemned and evil soul.
There is none of this feeling at all.
It is simply, in our words, to save one from an illusion, to remove them from their dream,
to wake them up and move them to the loftier spheres
from which they can then look upon what has come before
in their life cycle and realize the tremendous depth of light and movement
that has always been there but that they didn't see it.
So this is the way salvation is really meant.
And when people say that they are saved,
for example, there is a very definite movement
throughout not only America but through Europe and so forth,
of the so-called "born-again" people,
the "born-again" Christian.
What happens to a "born-again" Christian
is literally they are lifted up out of themselves for a while.
The power builds up
and then lifts them up out of their state
that they were in a moment before.
It is such a tremendously jolting,
vitalizing, rejuvenating experience
that it seems to them to have been born again,
literally, it is like moving into a new world.
And that is precisely what we hope for.
You see, the more people on the earth plane
who can become born again in whatever religion they choose,
to wake up in whatever religion they choose.
This is what we need.
And for the Christian, it comes in the terminology
of being born again.
And then salvation, in this terminology,
would simply mean a sustained state of born-again feeling.
Do you understand me?
That the feelings, this tremendous uplift,
which this gentleman has not too long ago experienced,
am I right?
- That's right.
this feeling on a continuing, ever going, on living basis is what salvation really is.
And sir, you would, I think, agree, well, let me put it this way, would you agree that
having that feeling for the rest of your life would be considered a saving?
This is what we mean, that the upliftment would be in a continuous form.
Yes, thank you.
You gave a very beautiful dissertation on the Christ teachings.
Very pleased that it had meaning.
And it has been very meaningful to a number of people.
I wonder if you or some of your associates could give a similar dissertation on the Buddha's
teachings and his place in the world of today, perhaps.
We would be pleased to do this.
But I can't do it.
So if the woman could have some water, I think we will be able to.
Okay.
It is not that I cannot, it is just that it is always best to call in those that know
the subject best.
The Christ and the Buddha are identical.
On one level higher, there is no Christ and no Buddha.
But in order to speak with a practical tongue, in order to make things understandable to
those that are requesting, we would say this.
In the cycles of the Earth, as we observe it, at different times there are different needs.
It is our job to do our best to bring forth the pulsating force that is most needed at
that time of Earth cycle.
At this time, as I believe has already been discussed, the emphasis is being placed on
the Christ.
However, it is not to be thought for any moment that the Buddha and the force that is embodied
in that concept is not one of the most dynamic, creative, vitalizing and helpful forces of
the earth plane.
There is very little need to speak to any of you about the Buddha himself, the persona
that we call the Buddha.
The tremendous advantage for Buddhists is that the documentation of what he actually said
is extremely accurate.
This is not true in the case of the Christian doctrines.
Various key phrases that are quoted as being Christian are not directly quoted in an absolute
correct sense. They have been changed, they have been infused with meaning that was not
there at the beginning, and therefore there is a great misunderstanding that arises in
the Christian doctrine. This does not happen in the case of the Buddha. The main reason
is that the wording was carefully remembered and documented at the time. Do you follow?
Yes.
Now this was not true in the Christian drama. The documents were written at a later time
and much had been imagined and hoped and therefore some of it is not accurate.
Therefore, some of it is not a crystal reflection of truth.
But, for the discerning Christian, the light will reveal itself.
But, in the case of the Buddha,
the power that emanated from that one figure
has changed and will continue to change the hearts of mankind.
The primary importance of the Buddha
is that he dealt with the breaking of the illusion
And it is this that is the highest form of the Buddhist teaching.
The ritual and all of that is very helpful to some and should not be in any way negated,
but the essence of the teaching is the breaking of the illusion.
There is one mind, and the Buddha knew there was one mind,
and his whole teaching points to this one truth.
There are many branches of his tree.
They are all, if sincerely followed, they are all
absolutely to be trusted, and if followed, will bring the fruits that he was able to bring forth.
However, we must in truth say that the Buddha, as in the Christ, was not a normal human being,
and the heights to which he reached are not easily accessible to most of you.
Do you understand?
Yes.
And therefore we would ask that you do your very best,
but do not be overly concerned with the inability to achieve that highest fruit,
because if you could but know the, in your terms,
In the long terms, eons of time that the Buddha spent seeking one mind,
you would realize that there is a long way for most humans to go.
But it is equally true to say that it will, if persevered in,
it will take you to great and high branches on the Buddha tree of life.
Do you have a specific question?
I was thinking about the application of the Buddhist principles today.
I quoted to you one, or to Bartholomew one time about
Arnold Toynbee's statement that the inner penetration of the two religions was the
most important event. How would you respond to that?
Well, I was present at the time of the other giving of the statement, and I am in agreement,
total agreement with what was said. I sense here, perhaps this is not so, but I sense a
I have a question about one particular branch of this tree, which is the Zen branch.
Yes.
Would you like to speak about this?
Yes, I would, very much.
This is the most difficult of the branches.
It is difficult in that it is austere,
All goes according to the higher plan.
All will work so that a school will be formed around...
that all four of these will participate.
And you see they're all four teachers in various lines of endeavor.
They all have taught.
So a school of some kind will be formed.
It's our hope that it will be a school for, what shall we call it,
the new age teaching.
believe is what they say, but that type of thing that will also give the regular curriculum.
And these four will be very instrumental in the setting up of a community, much along
the line of Finhorn, which would be of interest to you perhaps, but not exactly, but generally
along those lines. And these four will form the nucleus of something that will turn into
be quite a significant movement in that area. But it won't be for a few years yet. There
are certain things that have to be done first and certain lessons and certain furtherings
and then it will happen. But it will take place, yes. That is a valid question.
Another question. All her life the woman has felt that this mediumistic work is of a lower
order of service. Would you comment on this please?
We understand how she feels about this.
Her training has been extremely rigorous in the more severe disciplines, as you know,
where austerity and such have been the focus of her development.
and she is very much drawn to Zen Buddhism, which as you know, does not participate in this type of belief structure.
The thing that she needs to understand and to make a part of her very fiber is that
the mind can decide to do certain things, can see itself in a certain way.
And that is well and good, the mind has the right to do creation in this way.
However, when one turns one's life over to the divine force,
then one must decide to be obedient to whatever comes as one's destiny to do,
and to put aside as much as possible any ideas of greater or lesser degrees of work.
Everyone is called to do a different work,
and everyone must do the best of their ability to fulfill that particular destiny.
You know, I believe it's written in one of your books on this plane
that it's better to do one's own job perfectly,
no matter how small the job, than another person's job, however grand.
Something along that line.
This is very much the essence of what I feel most human beings need to understand.
You see, the reason that she is very doubtful
is that she realizes there will be negativity given to her for this,
and that many people look on this kind of service as being of a lower order.
But in all honesty, she must scan her past life and ask herself
at how many junctures in her own life have people doing the service that she is now performing,
how many people have helped her along the way.
And you see, she has had some very traumatic experiences take place in her life,
And at each juncture, there has been in the offing someone who was willing to lay themselves down in order to serve.
And this is what she's doing, you see. This is something very few people understand.
A really highly attuned, mediumistic expression calls for the person to lay their life down,
literally lay their life down, in order to serve someone else.
If she could see it from this perception, I think she will be a little more relieved about the situation.
Have I made that clear to all of you?
Yes, very clear.
And I feel that this is something that's greatly misunderstood.
Now, let us be clear on this.
It's a very easy medium to misuse, you see, and therefore the entire process comes into question.
and many people use it for profit and use it for power and use it for manipulation and for an ego satisfaction.
These elements are not present in the woman
and she must just make up her mind to view the entire situation from this level.
As she heard this weekend, a very fine saying was given that I think is worth repeating,
which is "keep the high watch."
You know, that's a very fine and meaningful truth. Keep the high watch.
And she was very much taken with these words and I think they speak to her.
And if you would let her understand it from this level.
Yes. Thank you.
Alright. May I just speak to you and we'll see how things work.
I would like to say first that you are a very high soul.
I would like to say that you have suffered much in various emotional situations during this lifetime
and we would like to commend you on your very deep and truly loving response to life as it has been presented to you.
It has not gone unnoticed.
We understand the deep sincerity of your call and of your understanding
and we stand ready at any time to be of service in any way,
your way will be greatly lightened in the ensuing years.
Much of the deepest heartbreak of your life is finished.
And all we can say is, "Well done. Well done. Well done."
Do you understand what we're trying to say?
Yep.
Because there are not many on the earth plane who respond to life situations the way you have done.
Well done.
Are you aware of the tremendous light you carry?
I wonder. I perceive you probably are not.
So, let me share with you how I perceive you when I do this.
If you could envision in your mind, let us say, a yellow flower.
A yellow flower that radiates the warmth and the love and the life force and the sustenance that moves through the very air that it lives in.
This is the kind of symbol that is brought into one's mind when one looks upon the one in a deeper sense.
Because truly that is what you do, you know, you radiate out, your very face carries the feeling of understanding that comes through deep living and living through difficulties that would not happen to so many whose faces would either turn blank or whose face would turn to sorrow.
but you see yours has not, and yours radiates this inner substance that we would like to tell you that we perceive and that you do not perceive.
And perhaps, if we might make a suggestion, may we?
Yes.
It is extremely important that you work in these remaining years of your life to concentrate
on the acceptance of this very fact that we're now speaking of.
I'm not speaking of accepting your ego station in life, I'm speaking of accepting your radiant
station in life, which is a golden one.
You have let others take the forward seat for many, many years in your life.
In various ways you have deferred to others and allowed this to be the way in which you related to the world.
And this is all well and good, because it teaches you the deep lessons of humility
that so many of the people that have gone before you as forerunners have not learned.
But the thing that is now necessary before you cross over into the next plane of existence,
the thing that you need to develop and carry with you,
is this tremendous light must really become a light in your mind so that you actually perceive it.
I don't know your name. Could you tell me your name?
Virginia.
Virginia, you need to understand that your mind is radiant and you are now capable, I
would even say easily capable, of truly understanding that light. Even so far as to see it, to really
perceive it in its pulsating form. So all that is really necessary to just completely
light in the heart center to remove all of the heaviness that life has given to you,
to remove that and to radiate forth the light and the peace that is just so close to you,
is to turn your mind truly to acceptance of this one central fact which you have not been
able to accept about yourself.
You are the truth and you are the light and you carry it in very glowing amounts.
And there's so much more so than so many that I have looked upon on the earth plane.
So I would ask you on behalf of the Brotherhood, now please understand,
we're calling at this time for all souls who really wish to serve, I mean really serve,
to call, to come forth if they can.
So I'm asking you to consider, if you would please,
not to do this for your own self,
although you will be greatly helped,
but if you cannot do it for yourself,
would you consider doing it for others?
Because ones who carry the light in the quantity that you do,
you're so close to being able to share it.
And this is exactly what we need, Virginia,
people to share the light, you see?
Everyone has light, you see?
I mean, this is the facts of existence.
Everyone has light, but so few are willing to share it.
And you're so close to that point when it will just spread throughout the whole environment in which you live
and move outwards past your environment, past the place of your work, past all of these things.
You're so close.
And this is what we need so much.
This is... so, have I made it clear of what I'm asking?
Nothing is demanded, you know. We cannot demand of anyone nor would we dream of doing so,
but we simply extend the offer. Please give it consideration, if you would.
Have you any questions now?
At times when you will be tempted to go into a lesser state,
please recall,
that what you're perceiving in the darkness is an illusion.
It does not exist.
It does not exist, Virginia.
It is very difficult for humans on the earth plane to really understand this,
but you're very close to that understanding, so I share with you now.
It is an illusion.
It is simply a projected illusion and does not have to bind you at all.
And you do not have to be bound.
You are one of the truly gifted ones.
You don't have to be bound.
In normal phraseology, your so-called karmic load...
You're familiar with all this?
Your karmic load is pretty much paid off.
So that means that now you can turn to this otherness within yourself and move through that.
And all of these things will disappear as if illusions.
People who cannot respond and who the light is too much for, if their ego is too attached,
they will move out of your life and it will be easy for you to let them go.
And you will be brought people who will be willing and desiring to share your strengths with you.
So, the first and only call is please to recognize that there is a light within that is available for you to perceive.
And you can perceive it in many ways. Various people do it in various ways.
Some actually see it, some actually feel it, some actually feel the rising of the light,
some people feel the moving out of the light, some people are enclosed with a vibration that actually stirs them,
Some people hear music, there are many forms.
All such forms are a manifestation of what is always there but rarely perceived.
But your tuning device is ready.
You're ready to receive it.
So, please give it thought.
Then the woman has another question that I think is of interest to all of us.
What is a proper understanding of prayer and how best to use it?
It's a good question.
And like all really fine questions, it has to be answered on different levels because
there are different ears to hear and different hearts to respond.
So we will start with the lowest and move on to the higher realms.
At the very lowest form of prayer, it is a way of the human vehicle to remind oneself
to actually put into a verbal pattern something that they're deeply feeling inside themselves.
You see, every human being, I care not how seemingly, and that is a true statement, seemingly
low and degraded that person is, actually every movement is an actual desire to commune.
You know, every time a human being seeks to commune with another human being, either through
speech, or through touch, or through sex, or through writing, whatever vehicle that this
is taking, the real desire is to be one with them.
Now we specialize this, you see, and break it down into male/female. That is the biggest.
If there is one illusion that the human will hang on until the very end, it is that.
They enjoy more than any other this tremendous play between male/female.
They really enjoy it.
So this is why it is the hardest of the so-called illusions to break out of.
Because in a specialized, when you take the incredible force of pulsating love that moves through the universe and try to ellipse it down into two bodies and say, "I will love this one and this one must love me," you see, it is actually a very painful, it is literally a painful situation.
Do you see what I'm saying? You're taking the vastness and you're moving it into very small cylinders and saying, "These I will love, but I will not love those," you see?
And this very pressure that keeps you so compacted into just loving certain people, you know,
is an incredibly limiting expression of love force, because in actuality, the person who truly loves, loves everybody.
There is absolutely no difference between loving this one and that one and that one and that one.
There is no difference. The person who truly loves knows this, that love is.
is. Love is not something you do to someone. Love is a state that you have entered into
and therefore is shared with everyone, you see. But the male/female illusion is the greatest.
Alright, back to the prayer situation. The human is seeking another vehicle, usually
another personification to commune with. You see, we try it on the earth plane, often it
doesn't work. Well, we agree. But often times on the earth plane, trying to love another
human being can be very difficult. The other person either doesn't respond the way we wish
or the person dies or whatever. There are so many things that can happen in a relationship
on the earth plane. So people then, when these do not turn out to give them the sustenance
that they really wish for, then they turn to the next level. And that next level is
a personification of a deity. I don't care which one it is, you can pick from the whole
roster, do you understand that? Whichever one you choose to pick, that is the one then,
now you take this and you try to make this correspondence between yourself and this deity.
And prayer is the method of love making, if you will, you see. This is the love making
then, because you can't touch them, you can't make love to them, so what's left? You can
talk to them, so you do, and the more you talk to them, the more you pour out your being
to them, the more you can sit in silence and receive the word, you will receive. You see,
it does work. Make no mistake, it works. Okay? This is why it has gone on through the ages.
When people speak in deprecating terms about prayer, the thing that they have not really
gotten in touch with is the fact that it works, and it works beautifully. But the one problem
with most on the earth plane is they do all the talking and they need to do some of the
listening you see. It's a one way communication and it won't work. It's just like a man and
wife. If the man is yelling at the woman all the time and doing all the talking, there's
no real relationship you see. A real relationship only comes when both are given equal time if
you will and if both are being in a totally receptive feeling of listening. So prayer works
best when it is equally divided between speaking and listening, or if you wish to put it another
way, reaching out and taking in. You see, both of these movements are very important. Now,
to some people this form is inadequate. They do not enjoy, I do not mean to exclude you
but I can't keep turning. Do you understand?
Yes, I do.
Um, um, the...
Many people do not respond to this
because they, uh, get into difficulty with the form.
Or many people will begin with the form
and then feel, "No, this is too restricting."
Just as they found it was too restricting,
say, on the Earth plane with the male-female relationship,
now the relationship with the Deity becomes too restricting, you see.
you see. So what is left? Well, they don't really know what's left, but they have found
a magic secret, which is that calling out brings a response. So then they say, "All
right." Now, I don't say they consciously say this, I'm just saying that the mechanism
then moves into another area, which says, "I will call out to," usually now, they will
personify as a God. You see, they've moved from Buddha or Christ or Shiva or Krishna
or whatever, you see, from this deity, they will move then to the source of all deity
which in their mind usually has a word, you know, to the Buddhist perhaps they would call
it the Buddha mind, to the Christian they would call it God, to the Mohammed they would
called Allah. You see, there will be a word then that will move in. Now, when they move
into this new realm, the same law applies. You see, the same law applies as it does on
the human level to best communicate, the same law applies on the highest level. Now we move
into the total communication with the God Self, with the Source of all things. And what
What we attempt to do when we do that is to literally join our total being with that vast
source.
That is what we're trying to do.
And some make it, it's possible to do it.
In fact, to tell you the truth, it's easier to do than most people would believe.
And they don't wish to believe it because then it would call on them to really try for
it.
Most human beings don't really want to try for it because you see this final stage is
the hardest in one way.
There is only one source.
If you join with that source, there is only one source.
You cannot keep your special separateness and be a part of that one source.
You cannot do it.
And it asks there the total question as you stand there beginning and as you feel the vast
movement, what happens is you feel, actually within your physical vehicle, you feel this
movement, this tremendous movement, and you sense instantly that everything will be different.
You see, you can stay pretty much the same on the level below that of the deity worship,
you see. You can stay yourself as worshipping that. There's two of you, correct? And there's
a lot of satisfaction in that. But, and that's a familiar territory, but when we move to the
higher section, when we really decide to immerse ourselves, it calls on a very different quality.
And this is why so few really move all the way through in this last human reaching out.
Because as you reach out to be immersed yourself in the One, if you ask continually, "Take
me in, let me surrender, let me be yours, it will happen. And the closer you get, the more
you understand that. The closer you get to losing that sense of I, of small I, the closer
you get, the more afraid you will become and many people turn back at this stage. But I
would ask all people who really do approach this, who get to that stage in their development
where they really do want to give it all away,
just give it all away,
if they would only...
Oh, how can I say?
In the moment of receiving,
when one is beginning to get into one's communion
with the Source or the God or whatever,
when one is really receiving,
you will feel the incredible trust
that you can place in this process.
You see, you will never be left without that knowing.
It is only if you don't listen, if you don't watch for it,
if you don't get in touch with that, then you become afraid.
But you cannot really stay afraid for very long
if you will keep calling on and then listening for
and receiving and holding within your being that vibrational note.
Do you know what I'm speaking of?
There is an incredible peace and joy and love and protection that is actually, totally felt
by the great ones who decide to immerse themselves.
Without that, they would never be able to do it.
You see, they could never do it.
You see, you're not left alone.
Never, never, never are you left alone.
The human being reflects the world.
They see separateness.
They see being abandoned.
They see that the love that they have is left, the love that they have is dead, their children
die, all these things happen and they believe that to be the reality.
So we say, do not count on your eyes, alright?
Don't trust your eyes, your eyes will deceive you, always.
Your eyes are not the vehicle to see truth with.
The inner mechanism is the vehicle to feel and experience truth with.
Those who go this path will be people who spend hours in this communion.
I mean in the midst of their work will be commuting.
You see, you don't have to be, you know, locked in a cell to do this commuting.
It can be a constant, ever-present, ever-vitalizing, ever-moving thing.
Yes.
Have I made this clear?
Very good.
Thank you.
Do you have any suggestions on how we can come more close to this ultimate surrender?
There's only one rule. Desire it.
Desire it first, second, third, fifth, thousandth, on up.
If it is your first and your greatest desire, if it pulsates through your being with the desire, you will not lose it.
You cannot be refused. But half-hearted desires, "This moment I want it, and then the next moment I don't."
You see, it's this fluctuating of desire that so defeats the victory.
So the only thing, and how then to achieve this one-pointedness?
Very simple, work at it.
You see, it's like everything else that you ever do.
How do you become a doctor? You work at it.
You work at it.
And this is how you achieve what you would choose to call enlightenment,
what I call freedom.
You see, you become free by working at it.
The books have been written, everyone in this room knows the rules.
rules, you see. There aren't any of us that don't know the rules. We know. Everyone in
the vast universe knows the rules of all of the things that they're asked to do. And the
human being knows the rules under which he should operate in order to move into this state.
But you have to work at it. And people are lazy. Do you know that, sir? Human beings are
are very lazy and they can get the momentum going for certain things, you see, and it
differs with each person. But pretty soon that becomes old and jaded and tiring. You
know, even the great millionaires, if you speak with them, you will find that this great movement
for great money becomes a jaded affair and then something else takes its place, you see.
and this is true of the intellectual, you know, at one point they become tired with burning,
this burning mind and so forth, and the ledger becomes very bored with bodies soon,
eventually somewhere down the line they're all the same, the experience is the same,
and is that all there is? You see, no matter where you take it, eventually it becomes a dead,
a dead life, because in truth it is dead. The thing that makes life worth, eternally worth living
is that quest that we're speaking of.
So, just work for it.
And be aware of one thing,
which many people perhaps are not aware of.
I think we have spoken of this before,
but I would repeat it again in this instance,
which I feel is an important thing.
For every movement that you make,
please be aware,
an incredible amount of movement is made toward you.
toward you. You see, it is all done out of love. The love is a pulsating reality that
is so crowding in upon your consciousness that sometimes we marvel that your brains don't
erupt with it. It is just a constant, real reality pushing on your very selves because
this is what you're made of. You see, if you were to see what you really are, you are light
and you are love. That is what you are.
And anything else that you perceive, I care not how high you go,
you can see the greatest, the highest diva, the greatest god that ever lived in a form,
the highest vision you will ever see is light and love moving in total harmony,
and it is everywhere. You see? It is everywhere.
That would be the significance of the Buddhist wisdom and compassion.
Wisdom being light, compassion representing love.
Exactly. These things move and they move together.
They move in harmony. You see, because one without the other has no meaning.
The two of them must move and they do move. They are absolutely one of a whole.
This is why the best couples often represent both aspects.
the mind and the wisdom in one and the love and the compassion in the other.
And because then you see they can make the exchange, they can learn one from the other.
Neither of them is the more desirable trait.
It's simply they will have a better mirror to reflect back, you see.
And this is one thing that the women in the world...
You see, I hope that this will not be taken ill by some of the people who might hear this tape,
this tape, but the fact remains that the woman's chief job and the reason that one takes a
female body is to learn gentleness and compassion. These are the two true deep hallmarks of the
female. Gentleness, which goes understanding. You cannot be truly gentle unless you're
really loving. These two have to go together. And compassion then for everyone, I mean everyone,
and a woman, you see you choose what vehicle you will manifest in according to what weaknesses that you have not yet brought to fruition.
So you know this is very funny from our perception all of this tremendous push for women's rights in a sense is very humorous from our view of things
of things because so many of these people who are doing the lavish shouting have come precisely
in the female form so that they could learn the very attributes that they are so furious
that they're funny about, you see. Because one thing that every human being needs to
know, I care not, you can incarnate a thousand times and if you have not learned this one
attribute you will have to come back. And that is this ability to be a follower. No one will
reach the Godhead without being a follower. No one. And if everybody is leading, if everyone
is the boss, if everyone is in control, then there leaves nobody to learn these incredibly
beautiful lessons of how to be a follower. How to just absolutely be willing and joyfully
a follower, there's a tremendous amount of joy in being a follower. It's a tremendous,
you know, it's just unrealistic. So, I hope I've made that clear.
Like our old saying, too many chiefs and not many Indians.
Not many Indians. There are many more chiefs on the earth plane right now than there are
Indians, I assure you of that. And the sad thing is that many of them have come to, that
came, took on body form to be Indians. But the pull, you see, the tremendous pull of the
society, especially in the West, the tremendous emphasis that's bombarding
from everywhere, success lies in the powerful. You see? It comes from
everywhere. Whoever has the power is the success. This is not the truth. May I just
say this is not a true perception. Many of the people who carry the power stand
in great jeopardy. Many people who carry the power in the world as it is
structured today are in jeopardy because it is false. They are building on a very
a false basis of power.
True power, true power comes from total surrender,
of total giving over, of total reception,
and of total love.
The person who is the strongest in the world
is the person who loves totally,
who will accept anything and everyone
in every moment of their life.
That person is most beloved and most fortunate.
It has been a privilege.
And if you have any other words of advice for me or any of the others in the room at this time,
they would be appreciated.
Well, we can try for it.
I think we should ask the two guests if they would really like to participate in this
or that they would not.
to
and
(static)